So let her roll David
Okay David, he needs to check your voice one more time, if you can maybe count
to five or so Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this
continent, etc. Okay does that do it? Yeah, he said that looks good
Are we ready? Yes. OK. First of all, Mr. DeCamp, we wondered just a little bit
about your origins as a writer back in the late 1930s, such things as or the
circumstances that caused you to start writing. Well, in 1937 and 8, I was
working in Scranton, Pennsylvania, as principal of the School of Inventing and
Patenting of the International Correspondent School. And I had a friend in New
York, an old college roommate of mine named John Clark, who was out of a job and
looking for one. And in order to continue to eat, he, who was a more faithful
reader of the science fiction magazine than I was at that time, wrote a couple
of stories. And I used to come in, oh, once or twice a month to New York, and
I'd stay at his apartment, and we'd sit up late and plot a couple of these
stories. So I gave him some help with them. He sent them to F. Orlin Cremaine,
the editor of Astounding, and to everybody's surprise, he sold them. So I
thought, well, if he can do that, why can't I? So having plenty of spare time in
Scranton, I wrote a couple and sent them in, and to my surprise, they were
bought. Well, at that point, I said, why hasn't somebody told me about this
before? It sure beats working. So, I wrote a few more stories and articles, sold
some, didn't sell others, and then, at the end of the beginning of 1939, I was
working at another job as one of the editors on a trade journal in New York, I
got fired in an economy purge. So I thought instead of fooling around with these
fiddling editorial jobs, why don't I try freelancing? You see, I figured that if
I spent five hours a week on my own time writing and made a certain amount of
money, if I could spend 50 hours a week at it, I'd make 10 times that much.
Well, of course, there's a fallacy there, because you soon run into a law of
diminishing returns. But nevertheless, I took the plunge and found that in
freelancing, I earned about as much as I had been doing, and I could be my own
boss, work at my own pace, work sitting down, and wear out all my old clothes.
So except for a couple of temporary jobs and the Second World War in which I was
in the Naval Reserve. I've been at it ever since.
Those first couple stories you mentioned that were published to your surprise,
was one of those hyperphilosity? Yes, hyperphilosity and the isolinguals. What
kind of money did you get when you published those? Oh, let me see. I think it
was the center word, which got something like 30 or 40 dollars, I suppose.
actually if you ask me what was my first published story that is the question
that can have any one of three answers if you mean the first one I started
writing it was the novel Genus Homo in collaboration with the late Skylar Miller
although we started that back around 1936 it took us over two years to finish it
and it wasn't published until 1941 If you mean, what was the first story I
completed? It was a rather amateurish little caveman story called The Hairless
Ones Come, the usual story about the conflict between the Neanderthal men and
the Cro-Magnards who overran Europe at the end of the Fourth Glaciation. and
that was published in 1939, I believe it was, in a short live magazine of
historical adventure called Golden Fleece. So that was the first one finished.
Then the first one published was, I believe, the Isolingles. Okay. You obviously
have a widespread reputation as a writer of humor, probably the foremost most in
the field of science fiction. That's good of you to say so. Do you think of
yourself as a humorist? I mean, is that a label that you want or that you agree
with? Let's say that I'm not an exclusive professional humorist of the type of
the late P.G. Woodhouse, for example. But on the other hand, I do try to liven
up most of my fiction with a generous sprinkling of humor. Of course, remember
that although people generally refer to me as a science fiction writer, the
reason is mainly that I made my early reputation in that field. Actually,
fiction is only about half of my output, the rest being science, history,
biography, literary criticism, and so on. And of the fictional half, aside from
five historical novels that I've written, about half is science fiction in a
strict sense and half is fantasy. Only about a quarter of my output is really
science fiction in a strict sense. Yeah, no, I understand that. But back to
humor for just a moment. Many critics and readers and commentators, whatever,
have said that science fiction and humor don't mix well. A good science fiction
humorous story or novel is sort of a rarity. What would be your comment about
that? Well, all I can say is that it is true that there aren't a great many
humorous stories in that field. But then, of course, there aren't a great many
humorous stories than any genre of fiction. Some people do it, and some people
don't. Now, back in, before the First World... the Second World War, pardon me,
I'm not that old quite yet, but before the Second World War, of the active
science fiction writers in the country, there were only two who were considered
humorous science fiction writers. And I was one, and Henry Kutner was the other.
Curiously enough both Henry and I in our private lives were rather serious
solemn fellows.
For a number of years I've been a fan of your Harold Shea stories, the ones you
collaborated with Fletcher Pratt on. If I understand right now, the first one of
those was The Roaring Trumpet, published around 1940 or so Yes. Okay, how did
that collaboration with Fletcher Pratt start? Fletcher Pratt was a military and
naval historian, among other things, and he ran a naval war game in his
apartment in New York City. Later they moved to a hired hall when the game got
too large. In which people crawled around on the floor pushing little model
boats, warships, models the real ships, which Fletcher whittled out at his desk
while he was waiting for the next sentence to come. They were made out of balsa
wood and wires and pins and things. And
I was also a naval buff, a regular reader of Jane's fighting ships and so forth,
and I could tell you what was the armament of the French terrible class, five 5
.5 inch guns, and so on. So, so was John Clarke. And he got in touch with
Fletcher, being more aggressive, let's say, and less shy than I in such matters.
He went around and called on him, and presently was enrolled in the Naval War
Game. And then he brought me around to meet Fletcher, and I was enrolled and was
a regular war game player. Well, Fletcher was at that time an established and
active writer, and I was a struggling young pro, you might say. So John said to
me, hey, Fletcher says he would like to see you. He has an idea for some
stories. So I went around to Fletcher's, and he proposed that he and I
collaborate on a series of stories based upon this far-out theory that you can
slip into any universe you want to by manipulating the symbols of symbolic
logic. I had been studying symbolic logic a little with all its cuter symbols
and things. So, okay, we went to it. And that is how the five Harold Shea
stories originated, as well as the other Pratt-de-Capt collaborations. One thing
that's sort of interested me about that particular collaboration, it seems to me
that humor is a very, I guess, a personal thing. I've always wondered how that
kind of a writing process worked. For instance, did you write a story and he go
over it? Did you do alternate stories? How is the actual mechanics of that? Our
method of collaboration, that is to say the one that we found that worked the
best for us, was that he and I would get together on an afternoon usually in his
apartment and thresh out story ideas. He would come up with one and I'd say, no,
no, that's not logical for this or that reason. Or I'd say, well, it seems to me
see that that's the same storyline that Kuttner had just last year, such and
such a magazine, so forth and so on. And finally, we get a story more or less
beaten into shape. And I'd make notes in shorthand, which I had taught myself,
and I'd take them home and I'd write out a synopsis of the story and submit that
to Fletcher and he would make any additions or changes that he thought
desirable. then I'd type the rough draft and give it to him, and he would type
the final draft. I have found in collaborations in general that it's usually
better for the younger writer of the pair to do the rough than the older one,
the final. The reason being that the younger writer is apt to have more energy
and more facility, but the older one, having been around longer, longer has a
sharper critical sense of spotting illogicalities, infelicities of expression
and things of that sort, feeding them out. Very good. None of those stories had
anything to do with Campbell, did it? John W. Campbell as an editor, those were
entirely separate from him, weren't they? Well, John Campbell published the
first three of the Harold Shea novels.
Harold Shea, none of his modern things work. The matches, the guns. In other
words, there's an internal consistency in the world, even though magic works.
That's right. Was that your own idea? That was the common idea. I mean, both
Fletcher and I I had long since agreed that, right from the start, that the most
effective in writing fantasy, you have to be even more careful about internal
consistency than you do in writing a realistic story. Because the reader's
credulity is already stretched like a rubber band, you see. And if you put extra
strain on it by having some obvious contradiction, it's going to snap. That boy,
you'll probably stop reading. Okay, good. Right. Just my observation that a lot
of the science fantasy that was being written back then especially did not have
that kind of consistency. That is quite right. And I consider myself fairly good
at following a train of logic and spotting cases where people commit
inconsistencies of that sort. As for example, one colleague of mine with whom I
have collaborated, on one night he will have a full moon and on the next night
he will have a new moon. Well, you can't do that because it takes two weeks to
get from one state to the other. All right, yes, I agree entirely.
In the Harold Shea stories as in many of the other novels you've written, at
least in the science-fantasy area. My observation is that your humor comes from
the unexpected things that happen when you put, say, a modern man back into a
world of legend or myth. One of the basic elements of humor, in my estimation,
is the element of surprise or incongruity. In other words, a derby hat on a
London businessman and is not funny, because they all wear them. But a derby hat
on Julius Caesar is, you see, because it's incongruent. And that is a very
considerable factor in humor. And to make that incongruity, I guess, obvious or
effective, you had to construct, I guess, very realistic or very accurate kinds
of backgrounds. Say, if it happened in the ancient world or mythological world,
you had to develop a highly realistic context for it. That's right. Where did
your knowledge, your background in ancient history and mythology and so forth
come from? Did you have to research those things heavily? Actually, I've always
been a very heavy reader. I was reading Darwin's Origin of Species through at
the age of seven, and things like that. And I had a pretty good historical and
mythological knowledge, But actually, for the roaring trumpet, Fletcher knew a
good deal more about that than I, because he was an enthusiast for the northern
thing, as William Morris called it, and belonged to a group that got together in
Boston and read Icelandic sagas to each other in the original. Well, therefore,
he was way ahead of me in the matter of Norse mythology, Then for the second
story, it was played in the world of Spenser's Faerie Queene, and I had never read
the Faerie Queene, so I sat down and dutifully plowed right through it. I never
did have quite the enthusiasm for it that Fletcher did. I found it pretty
tedious for long stretches, but nevertheless, he thought highly of it, and he
went through it. And then for the third one, why we, I knew something about
Ariosto's Orlando Furioso, although I'd never read it through, but it wasn't
very difficult to get hold of a set and read it. And that furnished the material
layer. Well, then we, after the Second World War, we sent Harold to the world of
the Finnish Kalevala. and that was simply a matter of getting the Everyman's
Library edition and reading through that and taking notes. And we finally had
him end up where he wanted to go all along which is in the mythological Ireland
of Cu Chulainn and Queen Maeve. And I already knew a fair amount about that but I
read up some more and so we got the stories. What about some of your more
historical places like the Rome of Less Darkness Fall? Did you attempt to make
that a picture of how 6th century Rome might have been? Yes, I did. I read
everything I could get my hands on it from, all the way from the original
sources, such as Procopius, and the letters of, what's his name, Cassiodorus,
which are available,
and the various modern works on the final period, the period of the fall of the
West Roman Empire and the barbarian era that followed. Yeah, the reason I ask
that is one time I read a critic or a commentator on that book, and he'd assumed
or made the statement that he thought it might have been an alternate universe,
but I thought that was incorrect. No, it was not intended to be, although I'll
have to confess to one minor error. After the book came out, I got a letter from
a professor at Dobby at Columbia University, who mind you, saying that he'd read
the book and enjoyed it greatly, but did I realize that on page such and such,
where I had a couple of my characters speaking Gothic, I realized that I had one
of them use the nominative case where he should have used the vocative. did you
go back and change it I don't remember. I think I did but I'm not sure. It was
just a matter of dropping an S off the end I have another question on that book
it's not often I get a chance to ask an author about his intentions or his
purposes maybe it's not a fair question but some people have said I've read this
that you had a serious theme to that work that can one man change the past for
the better I'm not sure if that was intended or if that's even a fair question,
but did you have that kind of a theme behind it? I took that as my assumption as
to whether it's so or not. I don't know. I don't think anyone else knows either
because there's such a large factor of luck in all these historical
developments. If Napoleon had fallen off his horse and broken his neck early in
his career, what would have happened? And history is full of things like that
where what looks like it's going to be an amazing career is cut short by some
adventitious circumstance. However, my primary purpose in writing fiction has
always been to entertain. And everything else takes a secondary place. Now, I
don't say that a little preaching, propaganda for causes that I personally
admire like wildlife conservation, let's say, or my personal opinions of
prejudices don't sneak in now and then. But nevertheless, the main purpose is
entertainment. Some people have said that, oh well, such and such a story by
De Camp is a satire, satirical. Well, I don't consider myself a satirist. In
other words, I don't write with the intention of holding up some human
institution or form of action to ridicule in the serious hope of getting people
to change it. But on the other hand, the human scene around me is so full of
dramatic and absurd and comical features that it's only natural to use them and
put them in my stories. You have beautifully anticipated my next question, which
was going to be that I did see a strain of gentle satire in your work, and I was
going to ask you to comment, which you have. well as I say you don't if you
really look around you over a good many years you see so many funny things that
you don't have to exercise great ingenuity or imagination in order to get an
entertaining story out of it just to add a little bit to that though one of your
later books The Great Fetish the copy I have was published in 1978 my personal
response to that was that there was more of a bite, more of a purpose to the
satire it seemed to me in that book, particularly on, say, evolution and
religion and so forth. Yes, well you see, I'm the fellow who wrote the
definitive history of the Scopes evolution trial in Dayton, Tennessee in 1925.
The book is called The Great Monkey Trial, and it just went out of print a
double day a year or so ago, after having been in print for, let's say, a dozen
or fifteen years. And it was a book that got quite a lot of attention when it
came out, most of it happy to say favorable. And it seemed to me that really, I
also did an article for the Scientific American a few years ago on the Epperson
case. The article was called The End of the Monkey War, and it's about the how
the anti-evolution law of the state of Arkansas was appealed up to the US
Supreme Court, and the court declared it unconstitutional. I followed that case
rather closely and got to know the principles, such as the Epperson's and such,
and having been in... And my wife and I have also written a juvenile biography
of Charles Darwin, Darwin and His Great Discovery, published by MacMellan. I
think that's a print. But having put so much time in on it, it just seemed to me
that with the setup of this particular story, well, you know, there's a chance
for a switch there. How about it if the equivalent of our creationists today
were the ones who were right for the reasons set forth in the story? So I took
that as my assumption and worked it out from there. Okay, that's very good. The
book started with the trial, and I immediately thought of the Scopes trial.
Yeah, exactly. Well, it's a switch on the Scopes trial, essentially. Okay. I'm
not sure I'm going to pronounce this right, but the Gavagan's Bar? That's
correct. Okay. Of course, that was another collaboration with Pratt, the story
of tales from Gavagan's Bar. I was curious about the antecedents for that kind
of a frame tale, you know, with the bar and the recurring characters and so
forth. Was that something you came up with yourself, or was there an antecedent
for that? It did have an antecedent, and that was the Jorkin stories of Lord
Dunsany, of which he wrote five volumes. And they include some very fine little
stories. Indeed, I was familiar with the stories. I don't remember whether
either Fletcher or I was consciously influenced by their example when we started
our Gavagan's Bar Series. Fletcher just said, well, let's write some short
stories of this and that sort laid in the bar, you know, barroom tall tales. And
he also would write Duncane, and I dare say he had jorkins at the back of his
mind too. By coincidence, our friend Arthur C. Clarke over in England was just
beginning his Tales of the White Heart at the same time, which is also a set of
far-room tall tales. Neither of us knew about what the other was doing. Okay,
yeah, his... I thought your book antedated his, or was before the Tales of the
White Heart. I don't know offhand what the date of publication of Tales of the
White Heart was,
But in any case, I do believe it's correct that both Art and Pratt and I were
working on these series at the same time. At least they overlapped. After all,
we wrote these stories over a period of several years before they were collected
in book form. They appeared in various magazines, including the old weird tales,
even. Hmm. In its last years, it unfolded in 1954.
Would you say that there is anything that would not work as humor in science
fiction or science fantasy? For instance, I have in mind, say, heroic fantasy of
the Conan type. Would it be possible to retain the heroic grandness, the
environment of that kind of story, and still write it humorously? well, you
couldn't get the same effect that Robert Howard did with his Conan because in
Robert Howard's original Conan stories, there is hardly any humor only in a
couple of stories is there a faint gleam of it here and there and when I
collaborate with present day Conan stories let us say Carter, why he has to call
me down now and then because I just have a natural tendency to stick a little
humor in now and then I've been doing it so long natural but it should not be
done because it spoils the general effect. Now as for my own stories in that
genre well I have no hesitation about putting humor in and my heroes are in
general not supermen they have to be pretty able fellows but I I try to make
them realistic, that is, with the usual assortment of virtues and vices and
strengths and weaknesses. Because that's the kind of character that I personally
find it easier to believe in when I read it. When you write a science fiction
story that you intend to be humorous, do you write it as a humorous science
fiction story or as a humorous story that is science fiction? Well I think
that's merely a matter of definition I never really thought of it I have not I
have not been successful in writing non-imaginative humor in other words writing
stories in a realistic setting and primarily humorous I did take a crack at one
once back around 1948 I guess it was, just shortly after the Hitlerian war. And
I wrote a whole novel that was sort of intended to be in the general vein of P
.G. Woodhouse and Thorne Smith, whom I was quite an admirer. But unfortunately,
when it was finished, everybody who saw it shuddered. They said it stank, and
I'm afraid they were right. It's never been published from that day to this, and
it probably would be better for my reputation if it never is. What's been your
most popular work in terms of sales? Do you have any estimation of that? Oh,
goodness, that's hard to say, and it also depends upon which kind of writing
you're talking about. In fiction, I suppose probably one or the other of the
Conan stories. But then since most of those I've written in collaboration, those
that I have written, why I suppose half the credit ought to go to the
collaborator. in nonfiction, I think the most sales are those of the ancient
engineers.
Okay, I only had one more question on humor. I'd like to ask you a little bit
about Conan afterwards. Sure. Is there anything special or unique about science
fiction or science fantasy that makes it a unique feel for a humorist? anything
that you couldn't do in other forms of fiction? Well, you can, of course,
because of the fact
that you're much less limited as to your settings and your basic assumptions
than you are in realistic fiction. It gives you unlimited opportunities for
working the essential
factors of humor, such as surprise and incongruity.
So I'd say on the whole that it's a very good field for humor, but in a way that
certain other fields are not. For example, I don't get a laugh out of funny war
stories, for example, because to me war is a pretty serious business and not a
proper subject for levity.
Okay, to switch direction for just a minute here, your background, as I've read,
is engineering, say your college background, sort of a practical science
background, and you've written books on inventions and so forth. Of course,
that's led to many non-fiction books, too, as you pointed out. Does that kind of
background influence your science fiction? Yes, it does. If you read any of my
stories laid in an imaginary milieu, you will notice a good deal more attention
paid to the nuts and bolts element of the background, the various gadgets that
people use and how they work. You'll notice a good deal more of that than you
will in a similar story by one of my contemporaries. As for example,
the last Krishna novel that I had published The Hostages Dear at one point where
the protagonist Fergus Reith is looking for a means to escape incidentally he is
one who gets married to a beautiful extraterrestrial princess and then wishes
like hell he could get out of it somehow, but she's a great boy, and is only
interested in one thing. And so while he is down on the waterfront with his
bodyguard to see that he doesn't bolt, a fire breaks out and presently, a crew
of firemen come running up with a fire engine. Now the fire engine, however, is
the type that was actually used in the ancient world, and I get that through my
readings in the history of science and technology, which is to say it's just a
big tub with handles at the corners and a pump in the middle, and the firemen
carry it by the handles, they set it down in front of where the fire is, they
organize a bucket brigade to fill the tank, and then they heave up and down on
the pump handles to squirt water at the fire, and that is what you might call
the predecessor of a modern steam-powered fire engine.
Okay, some of those books where you write about the inventions, say inventions
in their management, or inventions, patents, and so forth, Heroic Age of
American Invention, are those still in print? Well, no, let me think. I believe
that inventions, patents, and their management is in print. In fact, I rather
dread the day that Litton Industries will call me up and say, Hey, DeCamp,
you've got to rewrite the chapter on copyright in light of the new copyright
law.
The Heroic Age of American Invention, no, that's been out of print for quite a
good long while. The Ancient Engineers is available from Ballantine in paperback.
mm-hmm sadly two of my books ancient engineers and great cities of the ancient
world sold much sold better in Germany than they did in this country great
cities didn't didn't make much of a splash in America but in Germany it made the
best teller list what's your reputation in Europe now that you brought that up
are you do you sell pretty well over there overall in Europe hmm Yes, pretty
well, mainly in the United Kingdom and Germany. Also, quite a lot of stuff, my
stuff has come out in Italy. Those will be translations, correct? Yeah. Yeah.
I've had a few translations in Japan, even.
Maybe this isn't a fair question to ask of an author, but is it a question of
enjoyment or the mood you're in as to whether you write, say, a science fiction
or a fantasy book or a nonfiction one? Is there an enjoyment involved with one
over the other, or is it a duty that you feel? Well, let's say that when I
finish one big job, I like to tackle another one in a different field, just for
a change. In other words, when I've written the novel, well, next time around,
maybe I'll try an article or a nonfiction book. When I finish a nonfiction book,
I want to get back to fiction. Right now, for example, I'm completing my own
autobiography, and my wife is doing the final draft of the biography of Robert
Howard. And, uh, I have a couple of novels, one science fiction and one fantasy
in mind, which I want to get to as well as several short stories. Okay. On the
Conan material, I guess, heroic fantasy or whatever, or sword and sorcery,
whatever the genre, Now, you had written Heroic Fantasy, that type, before you
took up with Conan, right? That is right. In fact, I was writing it before the
term was invented and before I'd even heard of Robert Howard. How did you get
involved with his material? With Howard's material? Right. I went up to New
York, it was around the end of 1950,
and let me see, I think it was the Naval War Game at the Pratt's apartment or
something. No, it wasn't. It was the party at Pratt's apartment. And he handed
me a copy of Conan the Conqueror, found in hardback, published by Gnome Press.
And he said, here, take this along. I think you might find it interesting. I
don't care much for it myself, but Gnome's. So I took it. It seems that Martin
had, by inadvertence, sent Fletcher two review copies. Fletcher gave me one. I
started reading it on the train going home and was hooked right away. I kept on
until I'd read the thing through, and then I read it through again. Then I got
hold of John Clark, who I had heard casually mention Conan once or twice, but he
never tried to tell me on the idea, and I said, hey, what is this?
John told me about it. he had a found file of tear sheets of the original Conan
stories and weird tales which he lent to me and I devoured them and then a year
later I found some unpublished Conan manuscripts in the custody of the agent for
the Howard Literary Estate and I read them and arrangements were made with the
Howard Ayers and the agent for me to edit them and arrange for publication and
then on things have gone on and on and built up from that. As far as you know,
is there any more of the Howard material which has not been published relating
to Conan, that papers or story ideas and so forth that have not been... Not so
far as I know, but the person to ask about that is not me, but Glenn Lord, in
Pasadena, Texas. Do you envision yourself writing any more Conan material, you
know, the original Conan material?
I don't make any promises or predictions. Right now, let's say I do not have
anything like that in mind. I am involved in the novelization of the Conan the
Barbarian movie. But when that is out of the way, why there are no present plans
for anything more, not that I expect to be idle. I have enough to do to keep me
busy for a whole other lifetime. I was going to ask you about the movie, your
involvement with that. Are you hired as a consultant or a screenwriter? I'm
supposed to be a technical advisor. Do you have any information on it? I mean,
when it's going to be out or if it's going to be true to the books? We are at
present shooting in Spain. They expect to finish in May, and the movie should be
released about 13 to 14 months from now.
That's the last I've heard, but there are always flippage in these things, you
know. You've written this kind of material for so long. Probably your
perspective is better than anybody else's on this. Doesn't it seem that heroic
fantasy or sword and sorcery is extremely popular now? Huge reading public. Has
that... have you wondered about that, or wondered if it's going to wear off? Is
it a fad or the reasons for it? These things always tend to go in waves, and
they go up and down and may build up further. Eventually there's bound to be a
dip in public interest, but that doesn't mean that it'll just disappear. it'll
decline little and then maybe rise up again in another 20 or 50 years. You can't
really predict. I think that part of the popularity of the genre was a reaction
to certain trends in fiction following the Second World War, such as the
fondness for heavily subjective psychological or psychiatric stories, very
sentimental stories, stories glorifying the little man, the anti-hero, you know,
that hopeless little jerk who can't do anything right who has no brains or brawn
or character and whose only function is to suffer and suffer? Well, I think
people got sort of tired of that after a while. So then, between the paperback
publication of the Conan stories, for which I can claim the credit, I'm the one
who sold them, and the paperback publication of Tolkien's Lord of the Rings,
which was the other major factor in launching this boom, Why? That got people to
reading heroic fantasy on a large scale, which they are still doing. Okay, you
mentioned earlier the biography of Robert E. Howard. Yes. I read somewhere where
the title of that was going to be Dark Valley Destiny. Is that correct? That is
correct. When is that scheduled for release? We haven't finished the work on it
yet, and we don't have a contract. In fact, one of these months, we shall turn
the thing over to our agent and say, go to it, Eleanor, see what's the best deal
you can get. But a great deal depends upon who owns what of the phenomenal
literary properties at that time, and that becomes a matter of finance and
litigation and things of that sort. I would assume that you were probably as
knowledgeable on Howard as anybody living. In your research, in your study of
the man, what kind of person did you find him to be? Well, let's say that I'd
like to have met him, which I physically could have in the early 1930s if I had
known about him, but I'd never heard of him at that time. But, and he and I had
a good many interests in common in history, mythology, and so on And we might
have gotten along fine If I'd gone to see him in Cross Plains, maybe I have
sometimes fantasized He could have taught me to box while I taught him to fence
I was on my college team, you see fencing It wasn't very good, but they knew it
were the others So, on the other hand, it's very possible that we couldn't have
stood each other, because you can't tell how the chemical combination of two
personalities is going to work out. And Robert was a person who, one of his
outstanding personality quirks was a tendency to form dislikes and bitter
hatreds on little or no pretext. He hated all sorts of people. he was a well,
let's say that Conan is an obvious idealization of just a minute What is that?